(THEME MUSIC PLAYING)
(ROARS)
(NARRATOR READING)
(KION READING)
♪ Kupatana community
♪ One day for unity
♪ Gather together in peace
♪ Our Kupatana community ♪
(SINGING IN OTHER LANGUAGE)
Oh.
(CLEARS THROAT)
Mbuni, it's
ma-un-de-lay-e-oh,
ya uhhi.
Remember that for tonight!
Mmm-hmm.
(SINGING CONTINUES)
Your dad
is sounding good, Beshte.
Thanks, Your Majesty.
He's been practicing.
It's not every day
you get to be a part of
the Kupatana celebration.
Well, considering Kupatana
only happens once a year...
And I can't wait!
It's the biggest party
in the Pride Lands!
It's not just a party, Bunga.
Yes. Kupatana is the one day
all the animals
in the Pride Lands
gather side-by-side,
to celebrate
the Circle of Life in peace.
(SIGHS) Yeah.
It's the most peaceful day
of the year!
(DISTANT YIPPING)
(HYENAS LAUGHING)
I spoke too soon.
Yep. It's Janja
and his hyenas.
They're chasing a little
jackal pup though
the Outlands.
(SIGHS) The Outlands.
I wish the Lion Guard
defended the Circle of Life
out there, too.
But we don't...
Kion, today is Kupatana.
And not just here
in the Pride Lands.
The spirit of Kupatana
extends to all the animals
in the Circle of Life.
Even those
in the Outlands.
Of course.
You're right, Dad!
Lion Guard, let's go!
We're gonna save that pup!
You got it, Kion!
Zuka Zama!
Till the Pride Land's end...
ALL: Lion Guard defend!
(JACKAL PUP PANTING)
JANJA: There he goes!
Come on, fellas!
(LAUGHING)
(PANTING)
JANJA: Uh-oh!
ALL: Whoa!
(THUDDING)
(PANTING)
(ALL GROANING)
(GROWLS)
Hmm?
Oh, you jackals
are so annoying!
We just chased ya
out of our den yesterday.
And now you're back?
Guess I need to make
an example of ya!
(WHINES)
(SNARLS)
Not today, Janja!
(GRUNTING)
(GROWLS)
Hey! Hey! Easy on the fur!
What're you doing in the
Outlands, anyway?
Making sure
you let that pup go!
Yeah! Don't you know
today's Kupatana?
(LAUGHING) Ku... Ku...
Kupatana?
(LAUGHS)
Okay, Kion.
You want the jackal?
He's all yours!
Uh, okay.
C'mon fellas.
The Lion Guard's
doin' us a favor today!
(LAUGHS)
Merry Kupatana!
(ALL LAUGHING)
That was different.
Yeah. You think Janja
celebrates Kupatana, too?
I seriously doubt it.
Thanks, you guys!
You were awesome!
You were like,
"Let the jackal go!"
And they did!
Yeah. But why?
Well, I'm glad
we could help.
Um...
I'm Dogo.
And you guys must be
the Lion Guard!
You're the coolest!
You just looked
at the hyenas
and they ran away!
Yeah. We have that effect
on no-goods.
You're safe now, Dogo.
But I'd stay away
from Janja's territory
if I were you.
Are you guys going back
to the Pride Lands?
I know I'd be safe there!
Don't you need to get back
to your family, Dogo?
(SIGHS) I'm all by myself.
But I know there are lots of
friendly animals
in the Pride Lands!
Can I please come with you?
ALL: Aw.
Well, it is Kupatana.
Okay, Dogo. You can come.
(YIPPING EXCITEDLY)
(CONTINUES YIPPING)
(GASPS) That's the signal!
He did it!
(LAUGHS)
The plan worked!
The Lion Guard rescued Dogo.
Just like I knew they would.
We're getting into
the Pride Lands
just in time for Kupatana!
(SNORING)
Goigoi! Wake up!
(GASPING)
Aw, I was sleeping!
You're always sleeping.
Listen! Dogo convinced
the Lion Guard
to invite him
into the Pride Lands.
And when you invite
one jackal...
You invite us all!
I'll go round up the boys!
All those animals coming
together in "peace"
for Kupatana.
(LAUGHS)
They'll never know
what hit them!
You sure about this, Kion?
It seemed like Janja
couldn't wait to get rid
of this jackal!
It does seem odd.
Well, I think we should
at least give Dogo
a chance.
You picked a great day
to get chased by hyenas, Dogo!
I did?
Oh, yeah.
Tonight, all of these
baobab trees will bloom
for the very first time.
And all the animals
in the Pride Lands
come here to watch!
It's what we call "Kupatana."
I've heard about Kupatana.
But I've never seen it!
I can't wait!
(YIPPING)
Whoa, whoa, whoa!
You can't invite him
to Kupatana.
He's an Outlander.
Outlanders never come
to Kupatana. Right, Kion?
Well, we've never had
a guest from the Outlands
on Kupatana before.
Hmm?
But Dogo's just one
little jackal.
It might be good for him
to learn about Kupatana.
Come on.
Poa!
All right!
(YIPPING)
(BOTH LAUGHING)
Here you go, Dogo.
You can make yourself
at home on this hillside.
Yeah! It's the perfect spot!
Just a short trot
to the watering hole.
And look at the view!
(BIRDS SQUAWKING)
Okay. Well, thanks.
Welcome to
the Pride Lands, Dogo.
Now, let's split up
so we can
finish our patrol
in time for Kupatana.
Bunga, Beshte,
head to the watering hole.
Sounds good.
Ono, Fuli, you're with me.
We'll meet up back at
the lair.
(SIGHS)
REIREI: Hello, son.
Mom, Mom!
You heard my signal.
That's right.
And here we all are!
In the Pride Lands!
Yep. This place sure beats
the Outlands. (CHUCKLES)
(SLURPS)
I really fooled the
Lion Guard, didn't I?
Sure did, Dogo. Great job.
But why are you
sitting out here?
Uh, the Lion Guard
said I could stay
on this hillside.
(LAUGHS)
Jackals don't sit
on hillsides.
They have no idea
what us jackals are like,
do they?
When's this
Kupatana thing start?
I'm hungry!
Not for a while, honey.
In the meantime,
let's make ourselves at home.
Jackal style!
(TRUMPETING)
Hey, Ma Tembo!
Happy Kupatana!
Happy Kupatana, Beshte!
Happy Kupatana, Mbuni!
See you at
the celebration tonight?
Yep. Can't wait!
Heya, Dogo.
Dogo?
(SNORING)
BUNGA: He's so cute!
I know. But this is Muhanga
the aardvark's den.
He can't stay here.
Dogo?
(YIPS)
You got your own spot
on the hill, remember?
Oh, right. Okay.
Poor little fella.
Must've gone for a walk
and gotten lost.
Yeah. Whoa!
(SNORING)
But I thought he...
Dogo.
(YIPS)
Go back to your hill.
This den belongs to
someone else, too.
(IN SING-SONG) Weird.
(BOTH SCREAM)
Dogo! These are
aardvarks' dens!
You can't stay here!
(YIPPING)
Uh... Bunga?
Uh-huh.
Hey! What's going on here?
What are jackals doing
in our den?
Easy, everybody. Easy!
We'll take care of this.
Yeah!
How?
Uh, only one thing to do.
BUNGA AND BESHTE: Kion!
(GASPS) That was Bunga
and Beshte!
Ono! What do you see?
Hapana!
Kion, I think you need
to see this for yourself.
Oh, okay, Ono.
Lead the way!
What were you doing
in there?
Did you eat all my ants?
Easy there! I'm sure
they didn't mean
any harm.
Heyvi kabisa!
FULI: That's a lot
of jackals!
Where's Dogo?
You looking for my boy?
Who are you?
Didn't mean to startle ya.
I'm Reirei, Dogo's mom.
And this...
Goigoi, get out here!
...is Goigoi,
Dogo's dad.
Hey! That's our den!
And our fruit!
It's such a lovely den.
(SLURPS) And the fruit's
delicious!
We didn't say
you could eat it!
You took our stuff
without asking!
You're thieves!
(CHUCKLING) Thieves?
Us? Never!
Enough! Which one of you
is Dogo?
I'm right here, Kion.
Dogo, I thought you said
you didn't have any family.
Uh, no. I said I was
all by myself.
Which he was,
at the time!
My son always
tells the truth.
But when he went into
the Pride Lands,
we had to follow him.
You can't expect
a little pup to live
in a strange place
without his mom and dad.
Right, Goigoi?
(SNORING)
(GASPS AND GAGS)
(STUTTERING)
Whatever you say, dear.
And we couldn't leave
our other kids alone
in the Outlands.
What kind of parents
would do that?
(ALL COOING)
Okay, yeah.
I can see that.
But...
DISTANT VOICE: Ah! Help!
Kion! Mbeya the rhino...
He's trapped in a mud pit.
All the way over
at Lake Matope.
We'll need to get moving.
Okay, Reirei.
You and your family have to
stay away from the
aardvarks' dens.
And food.
Got it?
Oh, yes.
And I'm so sorry
for any misunderstanding.
Lion Guard, follow me!
Come on, kids!
Let's leave these nice
aardvarks to their business.
We'll find
someplace else to go.
Yeah, you do that.
You were right, Reirei.
The Pride Lands is filled
with great things to take.
Just wait for that big old
Kupatana celebration.
(GASPS) All the Pride Lands'
animals in one place!
Mmm-mmm.
Now, let's help
ourselves to more
of the Pride Landers'
generosity.
But, Mom, won't Kion and the
Lion Guard get mad
and kick us out?
Dogo, Dogo, Dogo.
Today is the one day
these silly Pride Landers
will let us get away
with anything.
Right, Goigoi?
Yup!
Because it's Kupatana.
(LAUGHING)
We can do
whatever we want.
As long as we do it
jackal style!
♪ Our kind is born
a bit smarter
♪ Than other creatures
you might know
♪ And though we seem
quite pleasant
(SNORING)
♪ Our niceness is
just a show
♪ We've learned how to
beat the system
♪ Everyone else
does our work for us
♪ But before we can
take advantage
♪ First we have to
win their trust
♪ So listen up
♪ Pretend to be sweet
♪ Speak with a smile
♪ Then you can take things
jackal style
(SQUEALS AND GROWLS)
♪ Even if you're mad
♪ Play it cool for a while
♪ That's how you fool 'em
jackal style
(GROWLS)
♪ Don't gather food
or build a home
♪ There's plenty here
for us to take
♪ Working hard might be
good for others
♪ But we get by
just being fake
♪ By being fake
♪ Pretend to be sweet
♪ Speak with a smile
♪ Then you can take things
jackal style
♪ Even if you're mad
♪ Play it cool for a while
♪ That's how you
fool 'em jackal style
♪ Jackal style
♪ And just wait for Kupatana
♪ All these animals
gathered in peace
♪ We'll stroll in
and eat at our pleasure
♪ It's gonna be
one amazing feast
♪ Pretend to be sweet
♪ Speak with a smile
♪ Then you can
take things jackal style
♪ Even if you're mad
♪ Play it cool for a while
♪ That's how you fool 'em
♪ Jackal style
♪ Jackal style ♪
(ALL GROAN)
Oh, dear.
Has there been
another misunderstanding?
Whew.
Thank you so much.
Hakuna Matata, Mbeya.
Happens to
all of us sometimes.
(WHIMPERING)
Maybe next time
you could get stuck
in mud that isn't so sticky.
It's okay.
We've still got time
to hit the watering hole
and get cleaned up
before the celebration.
(ANIMALS CALLING OUT)
Or maybe not.
Nothing to see here.
Move along.
I'm sorry, Kion.
I just don't understand
why everyone's so upset.
Yeah. We didn't take
anything from the aardvarks.
What about all these
other animals?
Oh, them?
Well...
It was just
a misunderstanding.
FULI: A misunderstanding?
Is that what they call
stealing food
and invading other animals'
homes in the Outlands?
Well, yes, it is.
Things are so different
out there.
How could we
possibly know
what's acceptable
in the Pride Lands?
Give me a break.
Kion, you don't know
how hard it is
to start over
in a strange place.
We just don't know
how to fit in.
We do so want to be accepted
as part of your community.
Don't you Pride Landers
have a word for that?
We do.
It's Kupatana.
We're actually gathering
in Mizimu Grove tonight
to celebrate Kupatana.
Kupatana.
Ku-pa-tana.
It sounds lovely.
Do you think
we jackals can be
a part of your Kupatana?
Maybe, but only
if you can treat
everyone in the
Pride Lands with respect.
Can you and
your family do that?
Oh, yes.
(SNORING)
I think we understand now.
Right, Goigoi?
Goigoi!
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Huh?
Uh, yeah,
whatever you say, dear.
Okay. Now we should go.
We need to clean up
for the Kupatana celebration.
But I hope
we'll see you there.
Oh, they'll see us there,
all right.
Won't they, Goigoi?
Whatever you say, dear.
(LAUGHS)
♪ We gather together
great and small
♪ Maendeleo-ya-uhhi
♪ Here we are, every animal
of the Pride Lands
♪ For this day of peace
♪ Kupatana community
♪ One day for unity
♪ Gather together in peace
♪ Our Kupatana community ♪
(SONG FADES)
Hey. Did Dogo
and his family come?
I don't see them.
FULI: Shh. It's starting.
Thank you all for joining us.
We're here not just
to witness
the blooming of the
baobab flowers,
but to celebrate
our community.
Our Kupatana.
And to honor all of our roles
in the Circle of Life.
(WIND WHOOSHING)
It is time.
(ALL EXCLAIM)
(ALL GASPING)
Wow.
(SNIFFLES)
This is so unexpected.
I didn't think
I'd be so moved.
What? By a bunch
of flowers?
No, by all the options.
All these delicious
little animals,
all in one place.
How will we ever know
where to begin?
I don't know.
Let's dig in.
And now, let the
Kupatana celebration...
(BARKING AND GROWLING)
Begin?
(ANIMALS CALLING OUT)
Oh, no.
Dogo.
I knew it.
What is going on?
It's Reirei and her
jackal family!
Jackal family?
Sorry, Dad.
This is my fault.
But I know what to do.
Everyone! Don't be afraid!
You can all help
the Lion Guard by
defending each other!
Kion is right.
If we stand together,
no Outlanders can defeat us.
We've gotta round up
these jackals
and send them
back to the Outlands
where they belong.
Ono?
Affirmative.
Fuli! I see Goigoi!
Behind the elephants!
Huwezi!
Nowhere to run, Goigoi!
That's what you think.
(LAUGHS)
(GROANS)
Beshte! Jackal pups
near the giraffes!
(BARKING)
Enough with the nipping.
(ALL GROWLING ANGRILY)
Come on,
where are you, Reirei?
Zuka Zama!
Got you, Dogo.
You know what? I don't think
you're cute anymore.
Now, now, little one,
it'll all be over quick.
(SQUEALING)
KION: Drop the hyrax.
(GROWLING)
Why, Kion.
What's got you so upset?
(LAUGHING NERVOUSLY)
You lied to me, Reirei.
Oh, no.
Did we make another mistake?
These Pride Land rules...
Save it.
You're going back
to the Outlands.
All of you.
Just one more chance.
That's all we...
SIMBA: You heard my son.
Leave. Now.
Oh. Simba.
I think there's been
a misunderstanding.
(ROARING)
You know what they say,
there's no place like home!
Let's go, kids!
Whatever you say, dear!
(JACKALS YELPING)
Kion?
I'm sorry, Dad.
Don't forget, Kion.
I encouraged you to save that
jackal pup this morning.
Yeah, but you didn't tell me
to invite him into
the Pride Lands.
You made a mistake, Kion.
But you made it
in the spirit of Kupatana.
You gave strangers
a chance to fit in.
And tonight we saw
Kupatana in action.
All the animals
of the Pride Lands
standing together as one.
Thanks, Dad.
(SIGHS)
I guess this year's
celebration's over.
BUNGA: You kidding?
Usually we just get to
look at these things.
(MUNCHING)
Mmm. This is the best
Kupatana ever.
(CONTINUES MUNCHING)
Mmm. (CHUCKLING)
Have to admit,
Bunga's right.
These baobab blossoms
are delicious.
(ALL MUNCHING
AND EXCLAIMING)
You see, Kion?
Everything has its place.
Yeah.
It's the Circle of Life.
Happy Kupatana, Dad.
Happy Kupatana, Kion.
♪ Our Kupatana community ♪